Okay, Jake, let's start recording.
So everyone is watching their recording. I promised Jake that we will keep this internal. So make sure that we do not share this out.
I know that we never do, but I just want to say that. So we're super excited.
Jake, we've actually spoken the most about you. During this program than we ever have. I think these founders are particularly very, hyped up about jobs to be done, which is amazing.
Like so many of, these guys just have loved the process, gone headfirst into it.
We require everyone to get to a Y before the Y. So they all did those presentations 2 weeks ago.
Awesome.
In person, it was awesome. So that's kind of the stage they're at. Some people are going into a second round of jobs beyond to either validate the other side of a marketplace or kind of pivot.
And do a new screening criteria set, but a lot of other people now are ready to implement the insights that they have and like follow those implications and make those iterations.
So this is the perfect time to meet meeting with you and tomorrow we're going to capstone this experience with Bob.
So I will hand it over to you. Guys, you already know we've talked about Jake.
He's the founder of Zest, our cooking app. That's out on the iPhone and Android app store right now.
I've talked about how they had virality when they came into program and fixed all of that.
Jake, they've watched your full demo day set. We watched it together last week. So they have context there.
And Jake is just a great example of how to implement jobs to be done and most of the things we taught in programs.
So start pupil here and we're really pleased to have him because he has never been able to come back and share his time like this.
This is a treat for you guys, so. Without further ado, I'll give it to you, Jake.
Yeah. Well, I guess let me preface with 2 things. Number one is I view.
Obviously I take jobs seriously, I guess that you guys have seen some of the work product that came out of.
Me and my team. But I'm also humble the fact that I'm an of one in this experience.
I mean, you guys have been through mentor madness at this point and you know, like you put 10 of us in a room and we have 25 different opinions and so What I really care about, what jobs really is a question of to me is systems in foundations for creativity and foundations for work.
And so it doesn't necessarily need to be jobs. I happen to think is a really good system for myself.
I'm gonna speak to it, the utility of it, the utility potentially of other systems. I don't know necessarily where we want to take this.
But. If anybody, I mean, you never to the tech stars team necessarily say, if you're skeptical of jobs as an approach, that's totally fine, but you have to be intellectually honest with yourself and humbled to the fact that you need systems in place that at least simulate.
What jobs are trying to do and what other areas of the business like how you can bring deep thought to other areas of the business.
And so for me, that happens to be jobs and I can go very deep in it. If you look at the larger system at play, it's just like.
Look at what jobs is accomplishing, like why do the jobs of jobs in a way and like understand that there are.
There is utility to taking a slower approach to building your product and understanding why people might purchase and This again happens to be good for me.
So second thing that I would say is I don't know who is meant to facilitate, Liana, Neil, Sophie, but.
I'm given that I'm an out of one. I'm not going to preface anything else that I say with it.
I'm going to speak fairly authoritatively. Again, all the matters I believe is that you have a system, but for the sake of time, I'm only going to give this one caveat at the very beginning.
But then I would ask anybody who's like moderating to pull pull me out. So if I'm ever going a little bit deeper speaking and like what sounds like tongues because we were playing talking heads just now.
Like pull me out of it and Tell me, like, tell me to clarify, tell me to go down or not a 1 rabbit hole versus another, cause I'm not gonna police myself.
I'm just gonna go a stream of consciousness.
That's awesome, Jake.
Well, I'll also put it, I'll put it on the founders too, Jake, like they need to steer you, right?
Yeah, like.
So I mean, they're, leaders. They all have companies that they run like they're adults.
They can handle this.
If I say something that's nonsense, it probably is nonsense. It's not you not getting it.
So just say like call me out on it and then we'll clarify or great contrast or necessary. Okay, so that being said then.
What what would be most helpful here? Where do you want me to go?
I'd love if at the top you could tell the story of kind of where you were coming into tech stars and then how as you learned the GTP process and iterated it and I know you were familiar pre program as well but like how did those implications change your business?
Like when you went through first, st give some background, but then knowing where they are at right now, when you were at that stage, how did you make the necessary changes?
Based on your why before the why because they've seen it they've read it How did you make your business succeed based on that?
Like kind of connect the dots between A and B because that's exactly where everybody is gonna be the next couple of weeks.
Yeah, this is like a really difficult part of the process, right? So, jobs as a system, when you're 1st introduced to it, it's not, you know, it's all arbitrarily one thing, but in truth it's really 5 steps.
So screen criterion learning objectives, sourcing interviews based on those screening criteria, conducting the interviews, clustering, and then actually building.
And the way that like my team has formulated it to ourselves, you lose a efficiency at each step in the process.
So like I'm sure that some of you have, for example, started conducting your interviews or did your interviews and at the end you were like darn we really should have focused in on this area and that's more a symptom of the screening criteria wasn't tight enough it's not an indictment on the interviews or like it took forever to source and it's like okay we lost so much time here that's
where we can get better and I always view it as a product so like the ability to do step one, time step 2, time step 3, ultimately each thing runs up below an efficiency of one and you ultimately end up with the overall.
Like ability to do your product, like process. So we came into tech stars. Lilyanna refer to it.
We understood some of these problems at an abstract level. We would speak to them on social media and we went viral as a result.
We were pretty successful there. But like there's an expression like a leaky bucket, like if you return, we like were like a pipe.
We just like sending people literally through our thing. Couldn't retain anybody. And so needed to take a step back in program and essentially reevaluate where our product was at.
What we had been doing, our critical mistake was in the screening criteria. Side of the process.
So we were speaking to people who are using zest who are paying possessed. About their journey about what they were hiring us for In reality, that was a really bad strategy for where we were at.
Because in essence we were talking to people who had never successfully learned how to cook and with an extremely high probability would fall out of our system.
About their experience successfully learning how to cook. And so what we decided we needed to do is actually remove zest from the equation entirely and speak to people who had successfully learned how to cook without us.
In particular, what we did is we looked at the pandemic, people had way more time during the pandemic than they do right now.
Big picture. People had way more time during the pandemic than they do right now. And so We just talked to them.
We talked to them about the forces pushes and polls that were acting on them. They're in the context of their situation that got them to learn how to cook.
But then also through their story came to observe. Inefficiencies in their process where we could cut out time.
Most effectively, and that's what led to the why behind the why that. I think that you guys were familiar with and ended up like studying in program.
And so I think that like, Let's do this.
Like why not open up some forms? Okay, so This is yes Wiki. We
I'll do, wait, you gotta sit down and say, you gotta show people when like, what are we even looking at?
Okay.
Like go back a few layers? Cause you, I know how awful you are and how you set up your systems.
So when you're like, okay, let me show the team my jobs to be done spot in my company's like.
You know, hub. What? Just happened just
Yeah, this is So there are 2 things. One is. You can live life with a growth mindset or a fixed mindset.
And typically high achieving people have got into where they are as a result of having a fixed mindset.
There's a blue ribbon you're gonna accomplish next thing you're gonna accomplish the next thing.
That makes it really hard to build compounding. Successful systems within a company. Like essentially, same with jobs, like you have to acknowledge that you're going to suck at 1st and then over time you're as you like start to build something it's just the best worst version of what you're going to have available.
So like an example of that within our company, we have something called the Wiki. If you do something more than twice, it gets its own article.
Things live inside of This and it essentially details how we work. So over time as we change how we work, the wiki will evolve with that.
Within that there's something that we have our called caller thought playbooks. This is essentially like, I'm dealing with a really difficult problem.
I wonder if I could throw a process at it to solve it. I think like analogy, potentially helpful.
Like, are you guys familiar with the band The White Stripes? The, it's so, yeah, alternative Broken.
Yeah, you have Jack and Meg White. Meg White is railed on in the music community for being a terrible bad drummer.
Jack White, they're like, why is Jack White playing with her? He's a transcendent guitar player.
Why does he play with Meg White? Who is just not complex as a drummer. But if you ask Jack White, his entire success is because Meg creates a structure that he has to function within.
And that allows for his creativity to blossom because it essentially creates constraints that then force him to work effectively.
And that's really like what honestly all of this stuff is. But within that. Job stuff.
Okay, we are.
That
So you created a home for your jobs to be done process as a company. So now this is like, is this a resource that you guys like utilize at some cadence or interval or is it more ad hoc?
At this point we use these things. It's almost like you can feel. When you need to.
So for example, We will lean on jobs as a method of conducting customer research whenever there's a question of customer research because again essentially it comes down to again this is how we filter information progress it's like what progress were people trying to make what were the forces acting on them if we can diagram those forces we'll be able to effectively diagnose a problem.
So like something some recently that we did was we looked at churn. We just like People are leaving our product, particularly bad terms.
So like people who had spent call it, I think it was like, 10 to 24 h. In zest.
It's like we should have you. Why why are you leaving us at this point? We like interviewed them.
We heard their stories because seemingly irrational decision, we were hearing irrational stuff. People would be like, I left because you don't have enough recipes.
If you cooked one's best recipe a day. For a year and a half, you would still have more zest recipes that you would cook.
So it's like, obviously, We have more recipe. So what does it actually mean you don't have enough recipes?
And it turns out we don't have the right recipe for you in a moment. So like I'm on TikTok and I see something I really want to cook and I go to zest and you don't have it God this app doesn't have anything and I like and not feeling that.
So to be clear about that. Jake, you were in a team meeting at some point and you all are talking about churn.
Yeah.
And you're like, well, we need to, we need to actually go talk to somebody. That will happen or is it some other way that.
You all decided to do this.
Yeah, we're gonna yeah again like this is gonna get deep we basically have something that we call spikes.
I this is like normally like in development you will spike things but the way that we spike things is by going and doing research over a set period of time.
And so we have like this is the, these are the research projects that we currently have, going on.
You have, this is like April Dunford stuff, Neil. So it's like less jobs oriented, but, dualingo for cooking.
Super successful messaging for us. It's our what and how? So it makes sense. It's like, what are we?
We are, we teach how to cook. Like, how do we do it? We do it like do a lingo.
So like on a surface level, we have an understanding, okay, this thing works. But what does it actually mean to somebody?
Who sees that and then decides and when do they see it and decide like, oh yeah, this makes total sense for me in my context.
Versus somebody that wouldn't. And so we actually like keep track of all that stuff. And we'll run our research that way.
On the demand side of things. So, Lilian, at your point, what we do is like, we essentially like, have you guys talked about the wall?
Oh.
Not really, not really, a little bit.
Some people have read demands that sales. Yeah.
Okay, well basically it's like your This is the hard thing that like we have to constantly remind ourselves as well as like your product doesn't matter to people like.
The fight that I got in with my sister yesterday matters to me. I, your product doesn't matter to me.
At best, it is like something that could potentially prevent me from losing my job. But like that's honestly typically an anxiety.
It's like, how do I know that I won't get in trouble for adopting this?
And this is like on the baby side. But like It is humiliated that that then drives in like a an understanding of the requirements needed to then end up building your product.
And so You guys have done this part ideally as effectively as you can the 1st time. You have to be okay with kind of stinking the 1st time the year, but like the best that you can to identify demand side.
What is lately out there without your product in the world and how are people solving the problem? Ideally that then lead you to a why behind the why that's like this thing is ton of words but the idea is like there's a wall.
And you've. 2 choices, you can either look, you can either be on the demand side of the wall, understand lane, demand in the market, and look over.
The wall at the supply side, understand the requirements dictated to you by your customers behaviors. That you now have to build towards or you can be on the supply side of the market.
Our camera is the best at in focus zoom. It has its shutter speed is XY, or Z.
And look over at the demand side and be like, it's good at solving those problems. And the difference between those things are subtle, but to me, ultimately it's actually pretty big.
It's the difference between the dog wagging the tail and the tail wagging the dog.
And so
Jake, what the point you just made is, have you had any experience helping people? Get over that, challenge because I think there are people in this room right now on the zoom call among our founders who are probably still struggling with conceptualizing.
The prioritization of the demand side before the supply side.
It's a Yeah. So one thing which I think that sounds like you got, you got to be true of mine and humble with spirit.
But I like, you know, like you have to actually be to say that you're down to do it this way is different than actually conducting and behaving this way.
And I will say a great way to waste a lot of time accept that you're doing a demand side and then like maintain a supply side attitude because what it will do is it'll essentially leave you in the middle, you'll stand on the wall, you won't be based in anything, and then like you'll struggle no matter what.
Do the reality is like a lot of companies can make it to like series A without a really tight understanding of demand side.
It's not again the way that I would do it. But you see, that's obviously like Bob, Andrew Glazer, they have made a lot of money coming in to companies who can no longer grow and are going under really quickly who need to understand why their customers were buying from them in the 1st place.
And understand and come to understand that they're an entirely different product than they initially believe. That being said, it is really difficult.
It is very easy to over intellectualize this at the stage that you're at where like if you have assuming the prerequisites been met you've engaged with this very honestly it's very difficult to then switch to features and benefits because those things are important.
I've almost like if you guys are familiar with the avatar, this is like air bending.
It's like you have like financial modeling which I view as fire vending. It's like church of finance stuff.
This stuff is really important. Like Avatar still has to fire Ben. But like it's you got to know when to draw on these tools and how to use them.
So for example, in marketing. We are building and cooking out. Makes a lot of sense for us to have good food content on our platform or on our pages.
We have no food content on our platform pages because other people are building a lot of interest in our product when they're showing their they're making people insecure.
They scroll through videos of great food and then you come upon our content and our content sees it on that moment.
And it's like Why are you, why are you looking at this and eating a cholera burrito and completely out of control over the way that you put food in your body?
And that's kind of where our positioning ends up finding itself. You see like. This is kind of a weird thing, but like loneliness and getting people to hang out with you is a big part of who we are as a product.
And so all of a sudden our brand is a friend in the kitchen. It's a knowledgeable friend who helps you through this process.
It's triggered in one way, like it's triggered because I go from a heavily socialized environment to a less socialized environment.
All of a sudden I'm I wasn't a dorm. I'm now living all campus. I was in college.
I'm now living out of college. But the tone of the app itself. Comes to reflect that in a different way.
Cadence for shipping. Becomes very important so that you This is again with the perfectionistic thing.
You just got to get stuff out there now and ruthless prioritization is going to be critical to the success of your company.
Also finding capacity for what you guys can get out in a certain period of time. Is really, really tough.
So this is like again, it tips into our stuff. I have kind of these systems for a lot of stuff.
We leverage a system for building and shipping called Shape of. It comes from like I don't know if you guys have talked about that.
As well.
They will in book club in in like a month or like a few weeks.
Hell yeah, I would, it, you will read it and you'll be like, this is great and our team just isn't at the point where we can stand this up yet.
That's gonna be the 1st thought that comes into your head. Stand it up. Just like do it as soon as you can.
You did it the hard way.
Because it's going to be intimidating. Right, right, right. We try not to.
But then the reality is like we're not shipping what Matters and and so you're gonna have essentially you're gonna have everything is Everything feels like the most exciting, most pressing problem to solve for your business in the moment.
You go down these rabbit holes of passion and the key is just Creating checks to validate them and allow yourself to take a step back to actually prioritize where where you're at.
So With shape up as a system, I mean, you guys will end up talking about it. But in essence, it's like you have 2 control factors when it comes to building.
You can you ship something. And you have time, like the amount of time that you dedicate to the project.
And most people will hinge on shipping something. And so even though like things are set up in 1, 2, 4 week sprints, it's really built around getting this feature this element of your product out.
Shape of flips that on its head and essentially says I don't care what you put out but you gotta put up in a set period of time that addresses this problem.
Then it becomes, I mean, it's similar to these other processes. How well can you shape?
How well can you put together pitches that will, help to address the problem that you're going after.
And allow you to get a get an actual usable product out. So basically like what we had was a product that didn't work at all.
We had a demand side understanding of why people might come to us or why people might learn how to cook.
And then we had a bunch of ideas and I wrote it like from there it's like rooms not built in a day you just gotta get to building to the degree that you can take a step back.
And understand what's what are the options at your disposal, create as much contrast as you can.
Like I would, I do this with my team they used to hate it now like everyone does not literally like we're working with the game mechanics guy and we're forcing him to do it and I'm not even the one that recommended is like, We have an issue with activation.
People aren't, people aren't coming on and starting to do the thing that we want them to do.
Yeah.
So I think that we should create a small, mini experience. At the beginning that teaches them something.
Great. That sounds like a really good idea. What are 2 to 3 other ways that you can solve this activation problem?
And even if you end up coming back to the first, st way that you do it, it will be sharper for you, have for your having created the contrast.
In the different approaches that you can take. Does that make sense? That's like a
Pretty important thing for like how we ultimately end up matching supply.
I mean, it makes sense to me. I'm more curious to see if other people. Other founders want to chime in and I think Brian through the question in the chat, Brian, do you want to say your question out loud to Jake?
Yeah, sure. So hi, hi, Jake. Pretty much we are a data company and we are going through the same problem.
We are going through the same problem. Literally, we can have 200 sets of universities or investors.
And when somebody comes onto a platform and such is for their specific university. They completely discredit everything else we have.
So I'm just curious, I mean, I know it's not, you know, talking it's not the one on the same thing but I'm just curious what incense did you gather Probably, jobs to be done in when you realize that hey people are coming and looking for a specific recipe on our platform they don't find it and because they don't find it they leave what, how did you solve for
that? Yeah.
So this again is gonna like come down to. I mean you guys have seen the why behind the why so you know like Again, there's not there's not much mystery to how we do this.
This, this is good. Yeah, I remember you showed me this.
But. Yeah, and this is like a reason work product is basically like We know that 2 things are going to trigger people to leave, but they're not the reason that they leave us.
It's a budgeting event. So like a major life event happening or like us violating trust.
So we're the people that are going to teach you how to cook. But it's like we screw up scaling up or down in a recipe and it's like these guys are supposed to be the cooking people but they can't even do this small thing like how can they how can I trust them to do the big thing?
Those cause people to turn, but they've already essentially decided that they were going to turn before that.
So what happens is like we essentially got 5 reasons. They complete all the levels in the app.
So these guys have no nothing more to teach me. They're no longer anxious as a cook. So, we dearest and we call going from 0 to one incompetence to competence.
And then we actually came to define like what are we currently believe incompetence means to somebody, what we believe confidence means to somebody.
We are hoping that with something like this, it's actually 0 to one to 2 to 3 to 4.
And if we can, in a process bring someone from 0 to one, then we can essentially copy and paste that process moving forward.
We have this was what we were talking about, which is essentially I saw your stuff on TikTok.
I saw it on the food network and you didn't have that. I'm tired of seeing the same finite set of recipes in the app and then you're, too rigid.
For me. So like you're forcing me to conform to a certain thing. And so what this allows me to do now is I mean, yeah, like I don't know if you're necessarily internalizing them, I do.
So this is like, oh shoot, we have. 5 blinking red lights and the planes currently in there.
And so what we have to do is quickly prioritize. So to your point. I don't look at that pro the number 3 right now.
We're not actually actively trying to solve it. We're trying to solve number 5 and we're getting really focused and how we want to solve number 5 and from there we'll go to number one and then from there we'll probably go to and then 3 and then 4 or maybe 3 than 2 than 4.
But it's like Once you have your set, it's like what is the most pressing problem?
To solve and I we have believe it or not systems that we go about to solve what is like we'll prioritize based on those things.
Yeah.
Jake. Just, to be clear, like, Sorry, Brian.
Okay.
I, I just have to, Okay. Yeah, so I just have to throw a comment. I'm very impressed that you've taken the white before the why and you invited it and you've made a 2 lot of that is actually mind blowing man like after that is I'm just looking at that I'm just thinking a oh my gosh that's a very good defense against chart you know yeah
Well, well. Okay.
Yeah. It's back. But push me, push me though, cause we can take it to, I wanna make sure that I get to the heart of your question as well.
But.
Yeah.
Well, Jake, if I can help reinforce what's that being asked by Brian here. You had this question.
I remember talking to you called me. We had a meeting and you were like We're trying to figure out how to understand why people are turning and we don't know.
And maybe there's people in the room right now who have customers recently. And they're struggling to give them a talk to them and there's probably struggling to even know the proper answer to that.
So one thing I wanted to call out with what you just showed. Is it didn't happen overnight.
Like you didn't just sit down with the team and then think of those 5 scenarios. There's a lot of work you had to do to figure out what those work, right?
Yeah.
So if you don't mind explaining the process that you went about actually understanding what and that would be helpful for everyone.
Is it a great point? It has to do with things not necessarily being zero-sum and we can also saw the question in the chat about the prioritization thing because that really does come into play is basically what I can to you deal with is that is not even necessarily the turn question, but basically like here are 10 different things that we can look at because the product isn't working the way that it's meant
to. Like I'm not We haven't broken even yet. The business is not. We're still trying to get things to click.
And so it's like, wow, we have so many different questions that we can investigate. Which one should we go after?
And there are factors that go into that, how easy it is to get people on the phone is one.
And then the other is how important it is. And we very quickly recognize like in that conversation it's like, yeah, bad churn is something that we really want to understand.
At the same time, it's really hard to get turned customers on. So it's like, okay, we're gonna set up a cadence, but I can't say similar to the Wi-Fi the Y behind the Y that happened in 2 weeks.
Because it was basically like week number one, have all the conversations with number 2 cluster and write the article and it was a lot of work in 2 weeks.
This one was a much longer project because what we do is when somebody spends all that time in the app and then turns, we'll email them $30 for 30 min.
I mean, I'm more than happy to follow up with like what the format of we ended up sending out is, but like we essentially just beg turn users to get on the phone for money.
And it's way more valuable to me for me to pay $300 to find out the information that I just shared than it is for me to pocket $300 and I don't know eventually like give it to amplitude or meta or like you know one of our vendors like And so it's.
It was very important. Essentially understand what the questions are that we want to evaluate and then how many you saw there are like 3 active areas of research going on right now.
Now that can get a little bit confusing from time to time. So you want to really make sure that you keep it straight, but it's important because we're going to find out the answer to the dual lingo for cooking thing much quicker than we'll find out the next turn research that we're trying to we're trying to get to the bottom.
Jay, quick question. Oh, go, go ahead. You can go, yeah.
Hi.
Jake, hi everyone. Yeah, sorry. Do you follow, did you follow any framework for those questions?
Do you have any recommendation on how to repair and how to work inside internally on every single question that you do to the users.
This is again where it's like, alright, we're gonna get deep, please try to push me if it's like, all right.
No, is unfortunately fortunately or unfortunately the answer this is what I do I do this to a piece of paper.
And I essentially like try to We record every conversation, already listen to the recordings so they're not quite there yet.
Different people will do this in different ways. So I've also seen people literally map the forces in real time.
That to me is like way too, they're way too, that's like a level better than.
I could do it's like really nuts to watch. But I have this essentially this is just a program, a timeline of progress.
And so as somebody told their story, I'll mark. On the timeline where we are and I'll try to understand and then when they say weird words I'll essentially clarify.
The key is, understanding what you're going after. Which is essentially what was the underlying progress that somebody was trying to make.
When did they go from passive looking all the way through deciding. As long as you're within the ballpark of that then, when do they use relativistic language?
So seizing on relativistic language is a really easy way to like kind of level up your game, which is to say I wanted to cook healthier food.
It's healthier than what? And so it's like creating and then I'll ask purposeful questions to create context and this is like kind of like a And then also contrast can help a lot.
So it's like, I'll purposely get a very minor detail wrong. Or like a couple of things wrong when I'm repeating back.
To somebody what they said because that actually then forces them to be like noble cause like no that's not right it was this thing because of this and then they'll like expose more information than before I think like again the key key is under like staying on the timeline of progress.
Should do it. How did you get your team to align on that system. I look how you you implemented this job suite on the framework, but it's like in the culture and fabric of your company now.
So where now when you have the conversation, it's a lot easier because you can tell when somebody's on their supply side thinking versus the mass I thinking.
How did you get You're did that. What systems you put in place to align on, hey, we're, we're gonna focus on man side because you don't want to be the guy selling just.
Features for feature sake, we have a empathetic understanding of. What the problem is and we're going to tackle it.
How did you like align on it?
Yeah. It's tough. I mean, so like this, it has to happen over time. Some people were all in right away.
Some people were more skeptical of it.
Ultimately, I'm building a cooking app. And if you put 10 people in a room and ask them to build a cooking at, they'll build 95% of the same product.
And so our opportunity is gonna be one along the margins. That's probably true for most of the businesses here is like the actual.
Business needs to be one along the margin and what can you do to position yourself or think differently? Than other people.
It is undeniable that it will, it's just.
It projects a different level of thinking. Once this is fully implemented. And that becomes very clear externally.
There's another kind of subsect or subcategory as you guys get into pit pitching where it's like I need to be able to confidently and concisely express these ideas.
This is not the forum where I'm doing that, right? Like I, my essential understanding and again, we can tighten this if not is this is just like freaking knowledge don't don't time won't just like rant but essentially like in external you'll be like my CTO slower to accept this than say the head of our design.
And what made him way more into it was you sat in a pitch or like, yeah, it was a pitch.
And he's like, oh, damn, like we sound so unbelievably competent. Because, once you have this I mean, toss this up one more time, but like.
This is what you're going to see. Like. Like this is the maximum that anyone ever will be exposed to.
If that makes sense. Like, if they're just gonna look at it and be like, they have a good brand.
And you know, like you can just like sit there and laugh and be like, yeah, we have a good brand.
You know, it's just like the users need. You need something. So if there are other ideas to sharpen this, I would advise doing it.
Our version of Shape Up is like, It's like the Protestant version to like the Basecamp Catholic version, you know, like it's we don't actually like do it the exact same way that they did it, but we evolved over time to have it fit what we needed from it.
And then we have honest like mentors and brokers who keep us on track when things are a little bit if it's cutting a corner versus, you know, customizing a process.
Awesome. Thank you.
I think one reference to validate we just said Jake is beyond just your CTO acknowledging it during a pitch, but could you provide a few, maybe one other example of a context where you realize that having this way of thinking about your business has been official.
Yeah.
Like I'm thinking about maybe That's the Koya Pitch that you had to come into town and give or I don't know if there's been other contexts where like I want the founders to understand like what they're hearing right now like It's not just conjecture and it's not just.
Like we're not over intellectualizing this notion like I think what you just said is very important for people to internalize and understand.
Well, I mean, like the reality is Like. Grandma, I would laugh. So we have like, you know, a quarter 1 million of people who follow us on and engage with us in social media and people hop on the phone with Graham and they're like, wow, I really want to do TikTok.
TikTok will be very important for our business. How should we do it? And there's 2 ways that the conversation goes.
One is like this very open, intellectually open, honest discussion on what it takes to set that up.
What is right for you? Like what are the mental benchmarks that you should go through to understand what channels for acquisition will work for you and your brand.
The other is make good content. You know, and like, I think the version of that for this is like, Go get traction.
And it's like if you can get Traction for your business. Now this is the point of like so many people end up plateauing because there are people who, you know, I worked at Meta for I made it to a VP level.
And that I go went down to my own business. I immediately closed a bunch of clients. And now I can't understand why they're continuing to pay me.
And that's like, I raised Series A and I completely tap out. And a lot of companies go under that way.
For us. We're playing in a highly fragmented field where like mine chairs had a premium.
This is ultimately going to be an advantage when we invert it when we turn on our head or reach scale.
But for now, huge uphill. It's like a moat. It's why it's hard is also going to be why it's better for us later on.
And so the answer is we needed to build good product in an amount of time. Before we go out of business.
And it's like, okay, go do it. How are you going to do it? And we needed a way to do it.
And this is our way, right? Good, Neil, to your point like, yes, like you ultimately end up sitting in rooms with people who have heard.
Great pitches and I happen to actually like when we pitched the Sequoia meeting, we pitch it with like 6 or 7 other 6 companies.
We're saying next house and they literally ranked the companies and it was like everybody got an honorable mention other than us and one other team.
Were like were the ones who could articulate what we were trying to solve. And so it ultimately shows, but what they're benchmarking behind is that traction and how you get that traction.
Like. You know, like, are you trying to like diet an exercise or you trying to just like stop drinking water for a week and a half?
It's like, you'll lose weight both ways, but one way you're gonna be able to keep it off and the other way it's going to be a lot harder once you start like, you know, doing what you need to do to live.
And so it's like, I, it's, it's a tough. To me it is hard to underestimate how important this type of Approaches but again I cannot stress you just happen to have put yourself in a position where you are around the masters of a certain way of thinking.
And so it's like, to me, it's like, cool. Yes, sense. Like let learn from the people that can know that but if you want to like go out and chart your own path and creating these systems for thought and how to work, that is also a viable alternative.
It's just like You need something. It's like you gotta have something or else you will be.
Building. Like on the skinny or teeth trying to like close contracts barely getting through it's just gonna be a mess And so it's like, I don't know, this is what, you know, creates order.
You also gotta be very comfortable with the. That's, that's a different thing.
Cool. I know I saw.
Alright, founders, it's a jump all like you guys can talk to Jake. This time is yours.
I saw one in the chat on prioritization. I can Toss up the way that we think on that.
So basically what we'll do is we create a set of. Like ideas for like, here's everything that we could do right now.
And then you end up whittling it down. You narrow it down. But like, so for example, in this situation, like there are 4 things that we could do.
I create like 4 little bubbles here. I then like Matt. So, for option number one, will option one directly lead with the work we do directly lead into option number 2.
Well, if it does, I draw an arrow going into from one into 2. Same for one to 3, same for one to 4.
That means like when I'm done, 2 errors go out of option one. I then do this like just to lead into one.
If yes, draw that arrow to eat into 3 if yes, draw that arrow to lead into 4. No, no arrow going out from 2 and 4.
There are 2 going out again. I mean, I go around the circle and I do this and all you see like at the very end I have 3 arrows going in and 2 going out.
Of this option I think that yeah in in that creates what we call like it says the natural priority of work so it's basically like what is the option that we will take right now that will open up the most doors for us.
And in this case, Option 4 leads out into 3 different things. This then goes into a tie.
And so what we do at a time, like you can get like a little bit, you know, triggered, but as a rule of thumb, the way that we'll do it is option 4 leads to the most options.
Next we choose to do 3. Because 3 leads to an equal number of options as these other ones, but there's fewer ways to actually get there.
So 2, there's only 2 things going in, but everything goes out. And then from here, the same thing then goes again.
These ones are a tie. So you could go to one or 1, 2 depending on your own process.
We do this for like literally large numbers. Things so like when there are more than 4 to 6 of these it gets very confusing to do by
Oh, let's see. I gotta open up Excel. It gets very confusing, to hit like circle and then you have like a million different lines.
And so I've essentially created a.
Diagram here. I've created a little Excel sheet that just does it for me. At this point.
And so this is literally the same thing. It's 2. Does 2 go into one? Yes, 3 going to one.
Yes. To 4 going to one, yes. And you just go down the column and you do it for everything.
And it creates a natural priority of work that is created down here and then clarified over here. And so this is how we like will ruthlessly, ruthlessly, we say ruthlessly prioritized, right?
And what it also lets you do is like, this was we did for the game. This is real inside baseball.
This is one that we just used and we had too much work and so there's this expression at base camp which I forget who brought up Jeremy was saying about, how to get team buy in.
I don't have team buy in on this phrase, but I use it anyway because I like the praise and that's it's better to create a kick-ass hat than a half-assed hole.
And it's like we had to cut. Half the stuff on this list. Because it's better to ship.
Project done to our degree right in our set period of time, then it is to either stretch the amount of time we don't compromise on the timeline or ship.
You know, some like mediocre done. Feature for all this stuff.
What's happening then?
I have a question about this. So what is leading into mean in this context? You say one leads into 2 or 3 leads into 4.
Can you give us an example maybe with the, yeah, with this spreadsheet or something like that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, here are 8 different things that we can do for our game.
It's a little bit deep to like this is one of those things where I don't it's gonna be hard for you to know the level of context that you guys need for this to make any sense whatsoever.
So I don't wanna go on rants about what I'm working on, but if it's just I'll keep it high level and then be like it still doesn't make sense and then I'll go lower level.
Basically like we could design onboarding and user placement for the app. We could create a new menu, we could create a new discover page, but create better recipe selection, redo our paywall, do 2 different features that impact our diary or a journal, or do side press.
So there's a main question, zesta game, and their main question, there's main quest to the game, and then there are a side quest that you can get.
And what we looked at, for example, the clear winner here, was the just,
This discover page, which had 5 things going out of it, 3 things going into it. And the reason that you would do discover, for example, before onboarding is that it probably makes sense that you need to do You have to know what you're onboarding people into.
And so like, this is the type of stuff. That, that example is very obvious, but, there, there will always without fail be like one or 2 things that are in different spots than you would actually think that they were because it's just too hard at least for me personally to like hold all these different permutations in my head of like what we could do in one order. And so then passion naturally takes over.
I like this idea more than that idea. And this is to de-risk. That passion. It's not to negate it.
Again, these are just different styles, but I certainly will index here so that I can then bring it to my team and then they're like, but we need this and it's like, yeah, well that diary actually isn't really gonna move the needle for us.
We need to do all this error. It might, it might be a great idea, but we have to do this other stuff to make it make any sense or else we're going to have to redo it anyway.
Receive that help.
I think we'll just jump to Ali, maybe, or maybe Mitch is not on.
Thank you, Jake. And, yeah, it
And It might have interrupted, but I'm here.
Did that help me too?
Yes, okay, so I didn't hear that question if that's what the question was at the end.
I see. So it's like you need, in order to build feature B, that's what means that feature A leads the feature.
Correct. Sometimes it will be a little bit more gray than that, but. Yes. You'll see like when you actually do it, it's like, darn, this kind of does it and then you have to like decide how you're going to run the process that time.
Hmm.
So it's not, it's not entirely binary.
Ali, I think.
Yeah, mine was a follow-up similar to Murcha. I was gonna ask, is it always a matter of workflow or is it more infrastructure like, you know, I can't build B without A or, you know, I can build B, it will be more effective with A and we see and that's where the grace start coming in like.
I tend to be deals. I tend to be partial to the latter and I'll show why is you can actually have it going both ways.
It's not entirely dependent. This is not a good, it's not an exercise of dependencies, but rather, increased or better optimized like workflow.
Is we're 2 resource constrained to do one and 2 at the same time.
Cool. I'll check in. So, Pay Jake, thanks for being here.
Me too.
This is really, really fun. So. It's amazing. So.
I'm curious, it's going to give you the number of idea in that instance with the Excel sheet.
You had a number of ideas that you wanted to work on. Number of features that you wanted to. They haven't read shape up yet, but, essentially at the end of shape of this thing called the betting table.
And maybe Jacob can talk a little bit about that, but I'm curious how this work quantitatively.
Okay, quantitative approach to making a feature. Is wait for that. Yeah.
This is my Victoria Hunt sword. At the betting table. It's like I Everybody comes prepared with.
With me and my team, like we all will say we fight all the time. Yeah, our best we fight about the right things.
And we've actually like. This is like where it's like, okay, he's he's obviously like kinda wired.
He's a little bit crazy, but he's like, I know, he's actually pretty crazy.
Is like, this is how we debates, you know, and so like literally like we'll have like, we had to get better at this because like sometimes it's very easy in these highly emotional situations where people are super, to, essentially have ego.
Leak in and it's like, okay, how can we check that? In our conversations. The betting table is like full body contact.
Founding a company. Like it's just No, no holds barred. And so everybody comes with essentially their ideas of what we believe that we should work on.
This is my, this is what I bring to it because we'll have times we just had betting day last week.
And it was honestly like it was like a pass through. It was like we actually kind of knew the work that we needed to get done over the course of the next 6 weeks.
We already had it relatively shaped. There were fewer cards on the table. Easy. We also have like crazy aggressive like it could be this it could be that it could be this one like your I think it should be this one like betting days in that this is where it helps for me, to just come and be like, well guys, I think this is what I will say is I circulate it to my team
like 24 h in advance. So like I'm not coming and being like, oh, it's interesting that you think that this is the priority because, man, and like trying to, like, there are no surprises here, but it's like, I just want to, you know, it's really hard.
They're like 8, we've had like 20 ideas. Fully shaped. That's where like framing comes in play too when you guys read shape up.
I extremely like I could not recommend more highly, particularly for building companies at our stage to frame. Ideas before you shape them.
It's like a new part of the process that Ryan is like now writing into a book I think but like it is.
Of most importance. Cross.
Can you elaborate on what framing is just briefly?
Okay. So basically like I know that Ryan and Bob, but maybe, just Ryan is currently working on like a new shape up that's not just kind of base camp specific.
What we do is essentially there is shaping the idea which is essentially creating an idea of what a solution might look like within the current context of the system.
Before that, we do something called framing. Framing is validating a business case to work on the solution right now.
And it essentially, table or kill ideas in the crib. To make sure that they don't end up getting too far.
So the way that we do that, this is our template for shaping. We have like a bunch of questions.
That you'll answer on a pitch you guys will like get into this when you do the shape of process before you ever do it though you gotta talk about the opportunity problem that you're solving for who when do they feel it what data research do we have to back it up in the plainest English what problem are you solving?
After you do that, it's the outcome. How of users life be different. This is again like, Jeremy, you were talking about how to make sure that you have collected buy in.
It needs to infect your company culture. So this is not outcome what KPIs will be driven by the result of this experiment.
It's What is changing the users life? What in their story is different now and that's a demand side question versus the supply side oriented ones and then you have prioritization so like which users are effective, how valuable are they to the company versus other ones?
Contrast it with whatever else we could do, isn't worth our time right now. And this will be like, okay, this is a really, cause there's always passion.
It's always like, dang, this is a really good idea. Like I can give you a.
Like cooking, tracker for zest. I love this idea and Julie, my one of my founding team members loves this idea.
This idea is not clearing framing. Julie doesn't know yet, but this idea is not getting passed for anything.
I like, I just, I'm again, as somebody that's passionate about it, know that it's just, I've done the mental math and we'll put it, I'll be in all actually honest and I'll do the process with it, but I just can't see a world where we have other things going on that this is the right time to deal with shaping a solution.
And that allows you then to shape more honestly. And that allows you then to shape more honestly because you can shape more holistically.
You can think about it almost like. Forces your attention to the right. Areas of the problem in the right moment.
So Jake, just quickly, as I'm seeing you like kind of show all these different processes that you have written out.
I what I've noticed about you is that whenever there's something that comes up at the company that's like a struggling moment, you tend to default to designing a system.
To prevent that from happening again, where you'll come up with some kind of documentation process. Whereas like I think a lot of folks right now might just and start a plan.
We just kinda like wing it and kinda figure it out and kinda do our best to figure out how to prioritize something and do our best to resolve the disagreement or to make the team member.
So what brings you over the edge by default? Always documented for the system in place. You don't have to repeat yourself.
Recidivism. So like if the problem comes up Oh, in our we say 2 times what that might mean is like 4 times though if it continues to rise and it's like dang this is that thing again and it can manifest very differently.
We'll build, will like put something in place. And again, it doesn't have to be the end of the world.
It's just like, let's put documentation on this. So next time, I don't need to start from square 0 because ultimately like these the success of these systems compound on one another so I move a little bit slower in the moment to write 4 sentences on how 4 bullet points on how we debate, for example, but it saves me so much time next time.
And I can give an example of one that's come up relatively recently. Communication in terms of do I need to give you progress on an idea that is fully in my lane, but a concern that you brought to me?
It came up on culinary. I have a recipe recommendation that I like love. And I would give it to Julie and who's our head of colony, nothing would ever happen with it.
It's like, easy not happening because she doesn't like it. Is not happening because she forgot about it is not it's very uncomfortable because like.
Like this is a blood sport and we're like charging for it and this is my team and I can't be walking behind me when I'm trying to like make progress towards our ultimate goal.
Another one was bugs for, these are 2 completely seemingly separate issues, but it ran into the same thing.
Hey, we were reporting a bug. Nothing comes back. Turns out they're all getting fixed, but I don't know.
I don't know if he's building something else if it's getting lost. Like literally had no process around that.
And so it's like, oh, there are 2 types of like points of feedback, random points of feedback on team.
There's a 1 which is basically like, I came across this recipe on TikTok.
I just want, I'd be remiss if I didn't share this with you. But I never need to hear about it.
Like I'm just like, I know that I would like to share with you. And there's a 2, which is like, Hey, this is actually something that I saw that was stressing me out quite a bit.
Can you update me? And we have like check in like points to update. Just like let me know when it's taken care of and the person knows it and I know it and like now you know it's much easier to avoid that type of problem but like it's not like Oh, I don't know what's happening.
It takes several times of this Julie thing happening. And then several times the bug thing happening. And then a couple other stuff and it's like, this is a system problem.
Like this is our team. I don't like blame the people. It's generally it's a failure on our like my part, right?
To make sure that people are set up. Best to succeed. And so, yeah, it's anything that you can see, ultimately lean to like multiplicative returns.
It's like, okay, yeah, like we should put this in place because we'll move faster.
It's like I no longer have to be worried about this. All takes up space. And I just, yeah, like I just, I'm not, good enough.
You know, like I'm not smart enough to like have it all hearing more, mentalized fully and just like, I just like need, I, set it and forget it.
I don't think about things. I just have it set up so that like I can be present. Like it's hard enough to be present.
So. It's like, yeah.
Thank you, Jake. And I'll just say that there's attributes like that and how you think thinking about that that I think signal to other people.
Namely investors, but also others. To want to support you because they're They're fascinated by a founder who can think about putting systems in place for scale at this early stage.
So those are some indicators that are more intangible and less like objective traction based or metric based decision making.
That we tend to evaluate as investors. So I just wanted to call that out for everybody to be here.
Yeah, evidently attention to detail matters when you're asking for a 7 figure check.
Ally, I think you had a question.
Yes, thank you. So would you show being discipline with all these systems and following the process?
Hmm.
A is a lot of work and and you have so many ideas to frame to shape and so on. How do you assign ownership within the team, particularly when it's very small?
Yeah.
And how do you avoid bias if there's only one owner gathering the data and framing something? That you know i mean jTV kind of like eliminate the bias but if you only have one person you know that it's 1 interpretation to be a little that framing and all that shaping.
No, yeah, so it's a great question. There needs to be,
Again, like this is like, I, you know, an interesting part of this founding journey for me has been the seeds of a worldview that feel like they begin to form right.
So I don't necessarily like. One very important thing. It seems like a lot of work to maintain these systems.
I have no ego attached to these systems. Like if they stop working, it's because they're breaking and I gotta find out why they're breaking and just like.
Fix it, right? So it's like, I, they're actually designed in certain ways to, to collapse.
And once they do, that's when we adjust this. It's not working for us anymore.
It should like at their best when It's a rupture repair cycle with where like your relationship is with the company.
It's like when things break, you just figure out why they're breaking, but it should at its best feel like like handing love.
Like this is how it should be working. We use a system for prioritization or for ownership called AORs.
It stands for areas of responsibility. I believe Apple is the one that's started it. But the way that it works is at the highest level of company ownership.
There's a directly responsible individual for everybody. You then can have all unlimited backups, but the buck stops with this person.
Huge this is again like you start to like once the system is stand up other stuff might get easier so like a huge blow fights about something not getting done is not because you're stupid and lazy and weren't thinking about it.
It's because the AORs weren't worked out right. Literally without fail. Like it's like when they're right, You're the AR.
You were wrong. Yes, I was the AOR. I am responsible for that. I and I need to tell through or like I was it was clearly delegated enough that someone knew that they were supposed to do it.
So, you'll see like this is, they stay relatively. High level for us in this set they go like a little bit so like database admin is on.
That's my CTO here. We have different, you know, at this point it's fairly robust, but it didn't start this way.
Them over time as things break. You try your best at 1st to set it up and what I do is every I, I can check for an actual number here, cause I know it's next week on Tuesday.
2 months, we have a designated time to go in and remove things that are no longer relevant. And then we also will Yeah.
Add throughout. So like in that rupture moment, like in when a DRI fails, like we just look here and we tend to just added.
There's like companies change. So then within that, for pitching and we actually detail like again, like I'm not, I'm not like, this is just, it's a way that works for us, but like we have the breakdown of like how shape-up works for our company here.
We've essentially rewritten the book, but it's like kind of like shorter just for us.
Pitch composition roles. Each pitch has a lead in sports squad. There's only allowed one lead.
And they're directly responsible for bringing the page from start to finish. Sword squad is there to either lead or help, help the lead out as needed.
This should be armed out before the cards move to giraffes, which is when we actually shape this stuff out.
Here. Okay. So backup. I don't even need to read it off from this, but essentially like the backup on framing is ideally if there is a product level, expertise required.
So like if there's technical expertise, if there's acquisition-based act, I should not be creating an acquisition strategy for META with my other co-founder who does nothing on those platforms.
I should be doing it with the person who's responsible. If that doesn't exist, I want to do it second order priority is with someone who vehemently opposes the idea.
Again, like we have why we debate. This is a big problem for us. Is like people say, no, I don't like it like things like that.
Bad debate. Yeah. I don't like it because. No because.
Create the contrast and then like you guys can actually litigate or, litigate the problem together.
3rd order priority is just anybody on the team. So it's basically like, do I need a technical person on this call? So it's basically like, do I need a technical person on this call?
Does anybody object to this to their core? Does anybody object to this to their core? Do they really not like it?
And then if there's none of those, then we meet with. Just like somebody else tell.
Shape this thing out. So again for cooking tracker me, Julie, we happen to really like it.
It's only 2, so it's normally a lead and then a support squad that's just cause like we're a bootstrap team.
But, I'm not, I don't like this idea at all. And so because of that, like we have.
A framing session set up with 3 of us. Julie is responsible for getting on the calendar.
Julie is responsible for making sure everybody's there. Julie is responsible for making sure that everybody has the right information in the right amount of time because she's believed she's the DRI.
And once you have kind of that set up, you don't even have to think about it. Public.
Was one of your areas of responsibility to put up with the AOR system in place at the very beginning.
Yeah. So yeah, and I love it. So you don't even understand, but this is great, right?
Because money where my map is like, okay, cool. Do they actually like do this thing and it's like, alright.
Yeah. Maintain. Look, correct down here. Right above development, line right above development.
That's amazing. I missed that difference.
Right. So it's like, we do it like I'm not just like, I didn't prepare, Neil didn't like email me to prepare things for this call.
Okay.
We actually. We actually have it. Oh, yeah, what's up, Nelson?
Cool. I could jump in. Yeah, so, you talked a lot about product prioritization.
I like the AOR thing because I think that's an interesting way to divide up responsibility and keep people honest.
So that's that's cool. I'm curious about your approach to management and communication, right?
So. I'm not sure how big your company is. So if you could give us a idea of like the scale that you're working with.
And then describe the systems. Where the approaches you're using for number one, situational awareness like you're the CEO, you gotta know what's going on.
Number 2. One of the things I ran into my last company was decision making. Like it took a long time to make decisions.
It took a long time to make sure that people were on board with decision. So if you could talk a little bit about.
How you know what's going on and then number 2. Like how decisions get made, implemented, tracked.
And closed out. I'd love to learn more about that.
I may. I'm gonna hit the system. Systems that come to mind.
If I miss anything though, do let me know. There's like a level of EQ responsible.
We just made this thing, so I actually don't know. This is like a newer addition to the Wiki, but like how people give and receive feedback.
I have 6 core team members plus like a couple of contractors. But like we were really trying to build a lean like the contractors are like a subject matter expert in game mechanic design, you know, who's referred to us by like multiple parties and like.
Is we're pretty tight in our understanding there.
I wanted just because there's gonna be a lot that we do that I may miss and I apologize in advance if I do that I may miss and I apologize in advance if I do because I just not I don't have an itemized list for situational awareness.
I batch what I want to talk to people about and I have weekly one on ones. I recently started recording.
These one on one's essentially the format is as follows agenda items that I want to cover. Things that the person can do to improve in their role.
Things that I can do to better support them in their role and how, what I can be doing to better improve in my role.
And it's meant to be an open forum. One on one, we'll talk about this stuff.
I prefer to batch things just because I hate one off request, but that's like a personal.
Thing. We didn't do, we call it a retro. It's not really a retro, but we have an hour and a half meeting every week, the core 6 of us, we're probably going to cap it at 6 as we continue to grow the company and will create smaller versions of this meeting.
But it's essentially a no holds bar discussion, a showcase of last week of work, plus like There it's very emotional, emotionally charged.
So things that are ragging on people that they need to bring up. If you want to check in on what's going on or the progress being made on certain cards.
There is a tremendous amount of trust built into our company. And so there are 2 things that.
We are like extremely, extremely strict on. One is, if I say verbal agreements, the, the importance of verbal agreements.
If I say I'm going to get something done, I'm going to go get something done.
And I'm going to get it done in the set period of time that I say that I'm going to get done.
And if not, I'm going to tell you as far in advance. As possible so the issue is in like so for example we have a mid cycle check and we scope work for 6 weeks like I mentioned through shape up.
We'll check in mid-cycle but even before like we check in throughout the course of the week, Hey, I, as I've been getting this under my belt, I think we're gonna need to make trade-offs.
We're gonna have to like get rid of this stuff and get this in so it doesn't come to ship date and it's like where is this one thing that we were so excited about it's like there are no real surprises because our natural moments check in along the way.
But also like, I don't need to, you know, Like I'm not trying to give out hall passes like I just want you to go do what you need to do and I want natural moments for us to like have this type of.
This type of communicate could have cadence. The other is a respected value for people's time.
And so like we show up and start meetings like on the dot. And you know it's funny is I came to entrepreneurship through Neil.
I found my 1st company coming out of this class at school. And so like his 1st day, the 1st thing he ever told us was, 5 min early is on time, on time is late.
And that's, that's literally our company because it's like, you start a meeting.
I've been meeting with 4 people. I show up 5 min late. I am showing up 5 min late.
I've wasted 5 min of my time, but I've wasted 15 min of their time because there are 3 people who had to wait 5 min.
And to me that's unacceptable. That's a lack of respect. So this type of stuff is Believe it or not, codified.
You're really making me now I'm like I feel like like one of those when the FDI raids my house I'm just like have all the diagrams like my manifestos up.
This is awesome, Jake.
I don't, don't you don't think about it ultimately but like We have a team charter.
And the team charter is adhered to. And so like you can literally see, I would click into it, we require like bouncing around the share we can if we want to, but scoping work is mentioned accountability, work for the team, present and participate.
That's like. I hate I'm very, I hate wasting time. And so like my thing is like, I like if you're there and don't need to be there, don't beat it.
Like I don't care but just don't be there, you know, like it versus like if you're, it's just like it's a waste for everybody.
And so figuring out that whole thing. The last thing I would say here on decision making is trust in the directly responsible individual to be accountable to the decisions that they're making.
This is something that like full transparency, like go-founder therapy set, you know, game off founder therapy session for a minute.
I've been dealing with recently because I'm empowering the product to decisions on my team and decisions are sometimes made that I wouldn't have made myself.
But I have to check that and understand like, again, if we're aligned in process and if we're engaging in this wholeheartedly.
If I think their process was good, again, but I wouldn't agree with like who am I to say that what they came up with was bad and what I came up with is good.
Necessarily articulated and also how much more progress will we able to make because I was able to trust this group to come up with something in the meantime.
This compounds over time though. I will say. And so like AORs need to be really, really tight.
Like, I don't want my marketing person thinking about our, our finance, I don't want him managing our financial model.
He needs to be, he is deeply in our financial model, but like I'm the one that's going in and like.
Changing that stuff or driving major changes to our spending plan. Alongside him and That's important to me.
He doesn't want me going into our ad manager and like messing around with what we have going on over there.
And so yeah, it's It's certainly, you know, it's a growth path, but you just kinda like put these natural things in place to deal with it.
Super helpful, thanks.
For sure.
Belaria. Go ahead.
Okay, yeah, I was gonna ask so Max and I, we're just 2 person team right now.
Yeah.
We're like in the starting phases of trying to figure out and make sure that all of our core values are aligned, but we haven't really started jotting it out into like detail pages like this like I've just begun experimenting like with our interns having them document processes like you said if it happens more than twice there should be a guideline for it like at what point did you start doing this and like was that a
good time to start doing it or do you wish you had started earlier if so like how do you figure out when to dedicate that time to it and like what to prioritize.
Which I guess the prioritization like table or game might be the 1st step in this process.
Yes. To the last one.
Like.
I think.
If you were forced to move to a foreign country where you can't We know nothing of anything. There like almost like a alien planet.
There will naturally be foundational things that you would take care of before. Others. You'll probably figure out how to eat before you start learning the language.
But quickly after these basic. Areas are taken care of. You're going to learn ways to actually live in the place that you are now situated.
I think it's very easy in this journey to not necessarily take the slowly compounding steps because it doesn't feel like the right time.
I think at this point you guys are in tech stars like you're this far through program. To not stand these up.
Is a disservice to have to do it all at once is daunting and like spoiler alert also will not like none of it will be done right right away because what I'm showing you is gonna change from Lauren like it's just like to have something in place.
So one is I'm assuming that everyone is filed correctly. That's like gonna be without saying, but like from a legal compliance standpoint, make sure that like.
You're an actual company that's incorporated and like stuff like that. Like you don't wanna like.
It's like with the fun, like don't be like. You know, we're a Wyoming S-corp and it's like What?
Like, why don't do that. And then the other side of it though is like that team charter, for example.
I think that was the 1st thing that we did is like slowly starting to stack this stuff. Recommending a book.
Just book takes the cape for the ratio of worst title to most tactically useful information. A great CEO within.
Is indispensable in terms of like AORs are detailed in there and like essentially what great CEO thing did is like hear a bunch of ideas for what an AOR could be.
I tried a bunch of them out. Some of them didn't like some of them were complete gibberish nonsense for what our company is.
We had our 2 month check-in and so by the 3rd two-month check-in we like pruned it.
And this is also a good example, Jeremy, for like the buy-in thing. Is like i IA team member who is like, these ALRs are ridiculous.
And then like by the 3rd cycle of doing then it was like these are ridiculous. And it's like, why are they ridiculous?
Because you never do that thing. And it's like, okay, let's get rid of it.
And I never do this thing. And it's like, okay, let's get rid of that one.
And then it was like, and I also do this thing. And it's like, okay, now that's there.
And it's like, Oh, dang, this is highly representative of how it works. And now it's like literally it will function that way.
All of, all of it, like this is just an incredibly frustrating journey in compounding. Compounded growth in systems and like things that you don't think will pay off in do in ways that you might not necessarily recognize.
I would say like prioritize, create a timeline for when you want to get stuff done. Make sure that it gets done in a long in accordance with the other things that you have to work on.
So you don't need to like, again, the temptation is when you don't have a lot of this stuff set up, it's like, I gotta get it done by Monday.
Because if I don't get it done, then I can't move on to the next thing.
It's like, well. Slow down like there's actually like a lot of time and we gotta you gotta make sure you're working on the right thing in the right order.
Okay, have like a quick follow-up to that. So 1st of all, that was awesome. Thank you.
Second of all, I was going to ask, is it possible, obviously not to show the content of your notion, but like the framework that you've used in built, cause like that's the platform we're using and like that I think the comment said it best.
Like that's the most like genius organization I've seen on notion yet. And so yeah, would that be possible?
Yeah, yeah, but you're not gonna like the answer. I'm pretty sure there's a pre templated wiki format.
On notion if you just like do the wiki template it will set up it'll set you up like that and what we did is we have like a little archive, you know, say the notion references or something at the bottom.
And that's just like at the bottom of the page and we've just put our thing on top of it.
Yes. Yeah.
Yeah, and then to be clear, plus about the, template, it's more about the mental.
Muscles that get developed to even think to go into documents.
Right. And it's muscle is a good word again because it's like
You know, it's hard and it's hard to get into working out when you're like tiny and gawkey and stringy, but like.
What this be like a thing that you are actually committed to building muscle in, versus kind of the one off.
Habits. It's just like
Yeah, I don't know. It's a fairly good way to de-rest the experience of building this.
You know, it's at least we had an approach. We can't say we didn't have an approach.
So.
So they got they got 11 min left. So.
Yeah, so just, I just wanna, for I think it was Ali mentioned it for us, and given some concept of the answers to be done.
Many at times. System dilation does happen sometimes it's just not that the system is broken but system dilation basically you have a situation steps are not followed in the contents that they were created initially created or there is pressure from external factor that really completely pushes you to just jump a step or skip the process.
We have a way to ensure a rain system, you know, when you're creating most of the system, there's a lot of.
However, they actually, application, yes down the line. There's normally that temptation to that system.
Do you have anything that you counter that, you know, physical checks and balances that really reinforce them?
Okay.
Yeah, and this is a really nice circle question. Is This is in lab work. So there are factors beyond your control that will be influencing this process, similar to jobs now.
Hey, I have this insight and I need to apply it to my business. There's gonna be a lot, but our fume date is in 3 months and it's like, And that does rightfully impact the way that you should be thinking about these things.
That's said.
Having the systems in place tends to help. And so like I use this phrase rupture and repair and that truly is what we do here is like if the system I'm not running a physics experiment in a lab where like I get to pull a little ball back and see how far it travels across the room.
I'm like pulling back the catapult on, you know, I'm on the shore and the enemy boats are outside and we got a fire fire this thing and hit the ship right so it's like it now there's wind now there's rain now there's like a lot of stuff going on and you have to be able to function in that environment.
Not in the environment that like makes sense in this perfect lab. And flexibility is what I have found matters there.
So I view it less is dilution if it's happening repeatedly it may be a rupture in the system that then needs to be shifted.
Hey, our approach here doesn't really work anymore. We just had this our 16 member is an engineer.
And it's like, and he's worked with our CTO for a decade in the past.
So they're not skipping a beat. They're like they can code or all this on our capacity as it relates to shipping.
Chipping is like way higher. It's like, oh shoot shape-up just completely broke. Cause like we used to have one designer, one developer.
We would the cadence was totally understood. Now it's like, are we betting on enough work?
Is it too little work? We don't know. And it's like, we really quickly need to find out because our business is.
As have to like our problems are just as existential as those facing anybody else. And so it becomes just when it is a repeated breach.
What needs to change, how do the systems that plan need to change because they're all flexible. You were the one that created them.
It's like this is where Yeah, we're functioning like within our own lanes or zones of filtering information and pollution.
Hopefully I can like, I think at my best I will remain conscious of that and like, you know, when I.
Ultimately falter, stumble and fall will be when I have lost track of that. Like in hindsight I will look back and be like, wow, I was way too fixed or less humble than I should have been or something like that to the way that we were running our our company.
Gotcha, Mark, I just said, let's just let me log with the mic for a minute here.
The other thing that I want to move back to the interviews, to what extent. Do you still keep the interview centralized to you?
You know, cause one thing I'm learning very quickly is, yeah, it's great for the CEO to be in the room.
But the engineers, you know, if you tell engineers to design a box, they'll design a box and they don't have the empathy, the thing needs to be.
Do you get them involved in some shape or form in the interests other than listening to the recordings or reading the transcripts, for the jobs interviews?
Yeah, so we did based on interest. So I had a team member who was like, I really want to see what this is like and she has gotten involved.
We also stole something so intercom runs on JavaScript. And when they onboard new employees, they'll source interviews, they'll literally pay to source interviews with clients that they you know like I can tell based on how you did onboarding that you're going to be a good customer interview, and they will have the new interview you sit in and we did that with our 6 hire.
He sat in on 3 interviews to hear what it's like. We told him in advance we were like we're gonna have because at this point the jobs don't change unless the context of the world.
Drastically changes, these jobs don't change. Our understanding of them might be sharpened, but it's like No global pandemic then like guess what when I move in with my partner and I don't know how to cook and I'm giving them day old chicken and rice and like expecting to pass it off as dinner and hey this is the rest of your life like yeah I'm gonna like there's gonna be pressure on me
to change that. And so like we've found that gain buy in from the new employees, obviously really important.
Otherwise though, It just has to be core. Like I did like the person like I was talking to Jeremy about who might not have bought in on this like has said to me multiple times.
Recently, like our competitive advantage is our understanding of our customer. This is not something that I ever would have thought that person would have told me.
Was the one who had to drill that in him. And so it's like I, yeah, I think that I try to give people access.
The flip side of this. I, I've talked to Neil about this a bit.
I like love. This stuff, obviously. The understanding like making the irrational rational like understanding rational and making the abstract more concrete and like understanding how these decisions are made is like where I find my passion in this journey.
And that to me is a huge red flag warning sign to be aware of because I have to make sure that as I continue to build this company.
I am doing what's best for the company. In every given moment, not necessarily what I drive the most passion or pleasure from doing.
And so. This was.
Difficult it's a difficult thing I don't necessarily know where that kicks out yet I'm still very very involved in it and I still believe that's really important but I've seen other founders is fundraising.
People are like I love it. Get me out there, get me talking about my thing. Salesmen in a room, chalk it up, buy your coffee.
Like, I go to the event, hold a cocktail, like that's what I love doing because I get to talk about my thing and share with work and it's like ultimately like.
Sure, but then you never raised the round or like you struggle to raise the the fall. It's just like understanding where your time needs to be spent, not where you enjoy spending your time is critically important.
And then also then there's the whole thing about insecurity driving where you spend your time and you also want to set that's the flip side of it and you want to obviously hedge against that as well.
What's up, Mel?
Hey Jake, just 1st off, man. Thanks for all this. This is super, super clear.
I really appreciate it. You started to get in touch on the topic I was interested more about really around the idea of new hires and onboarding.
And how explicit you are with your values and things like that. I'm curious if that spills over into your selection process and even explicitly what that onboarding process looks like.
You know, you just mentioned shadowing some things, but curious how you translate that or if it's something someone's meant to go and read, yeah, just, just, do you mind again on packing that process?
Yeah, so Very rare in life that you can like lean on like phrases. Higher slow fire fast feels like a really Good one.
And then within the onboarding of somebody, something that Neil told me, one of those moments where it's like he's hopping off a call and said something offhandedly and he's like, yeah, blows my mind is like you coach to success you change the role if the person needs that and if that doesn't work that's when you cut me you have to do that fairly
ruthlessly. On onboarding right now, we've onboarded, we, have I'm a team of 4 founder.
So we're a big founding team. I have a 5th employee founding team member who came on and then the 6th person who just added in February.
This is not yet at the the 5th the 5th Oh, sorry, 6%. The 5th person came on like 3 tech stars.
I think Julie was on team or maybe it was the, I think Julie was on team or maybe it was the summer half.
Yeah, Julian.
It was like she was in early. So there is no like, She was just like, it's almost as if she's a founder.
On the team, this is our 1st ever real hire. So it doesn't meet the threshold or criteria to have that outlined.
Process. Yeah, I just, we're trying to figure out where the pain points are.
Like, what are the forces that are acting on us in these moments? One thing that I lean heavily on, it seems, again, though I'm like 3 months in, so like, Hey, let's catch up and like.
6 months or whatever, a year and I'll tell you if this worked out for us. But it's intrinsic motivation rather than extrinsic award.
It's like I can't give this person passion. I can put him in front of successful customers.
I can understand or try to empathize with where he's coming from. This guy's at Grubhub.
They told him to come in 2 days a week. He's an engineering. He's like, Why?
Like it doesn't make sense to me. And he was working, you know, like Hey, remember like those internal tools that took 8 and a half months to get out the door that you were shipping that they never actually implemented like, hey, you can come over here and you'll rebuild our app within like 6 weeks and it's like trusting him with his instinct empowering him and again through the scope
of like what the DRIs are. Higher slow, one thing I'll say that I do.
And Obviously, still creating. Kind of going culture around this. Fairly consistently is like We have.
Job interviews. I would highly recommend who? WHO as a book around how to hire. There's also high output management.
That's by Andy Grove, how to hire. There's also high output management.
That's by Andy Grove, who used to be head of Intel. Just have a how to hire stuff, but essentially I can see that there aren't that many questions here.
So we ask 4 questions. To anybody that chose interest in a job, who might slot in because I don't, when I say high or slow, I don't mean I need an engineer, I gotta go hire an engineer.
Ideally what it means is I need an engineer. I'm gonna hire Fred who I talk I spoke to the 1st time 2 years ago who we've been in touch with who like has always wanted to come on and it's like, Dan, can you imagine that level of like intrinsic drive or desire?
Now every story is different it might take place differently but like that's what I'm looking for.
And so we we gauge them like hey what are your career goals? What are you really good at professionally?
What are you not good at or not interested in professionally? And why are you interested in zest?
We also say what will your last 5 bosses? Like how will they rate you on a scale of one to 10 when we speak to them?
When we speak to them very important and makes the question a little bit more real, what you could do if you don't love the answer is also pulled the number they said.
So like my boss will write me an 8. If they can't write you an 8, would you be a 7 or 9?
To kind of drill down a little bit deeper there. This person not asked that because they were an intern candidate.
And so, you know, when you're an intern, in matter cycle over less, but, this just gives a a very good picture.
So this is like kind of how we go about hiring. I would also say, to the degree that you guys can do.
I lost my train phone actually. If it comes back, it will be important.
I appreciate that man. That was really clear. Thank you for going on the extra details well.
Yeah, sure.
Jake. I think. Oh yeah, go ahead, ianna.
Yeah, I was gonna say I recognize we're at time, Jake. So. I can stick around and try and answer other people's questions.
I wanna let you go. Do you have a hard stop? Do you wanna answer the last 2 questions?
Okay, great.
This is extremely helpful.
No, so I, yeah, I actually can go a bit over. So I'm like happy to stay on as long as it's like helpful slash tactical, but also the Yeah, likewise goes to anybody like please don't feel obligated.
A mate